Tutorial/upload with custom type (#217)
SenseNet/docs.sensenet.com: content/tutorials/content-types/upload-content-with-a-custom-type.md

---
title: "Upload content with a custom type"
metaTitle: "sensenet Tutorials - Upload content with a custom type"
metaDescription: "sensenet Tutorials - Upload content with a custom type"
---

In this tutorial you will learn how you can upload content to a container with a custom type. We will look at how to upload other built-in types like Image or totally custom types that are inherited from the default File.

## Upload basics

> By default if you upload a file into a container in sensenet it will be created as a `File`. `File` is the built-in type for storing files in the content repository. This types key field is a binary field, which contains the actual binary of the file. Learn more about the `File` content type in the [concepts](content/concepts/content-types/06-file).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default if you upload a file into a container in sensenet it will be created as a `File`. `File` is the built-in type for storing files in the content repository. This type's key field is a binary field, which contains the actual binary of the file. Learn more about the `File` content type in the [concepts](content/concepts/content-types/06-file).
```

![Default allowed child types](./img/library_allowed_types.png "Default allowed child types on a library")

As you can see Folder and File types are available which means that if you upload a document it will be created as `File` whether it is an image or a Word document. The upload option is displayed based on if `File` or an inherited type is in the allowed child type list (there is an uploadable type allowed).

<note severity="info">Learn more about allowed child types in the <a href="/concepts/content-management/06-allowed-childtypes">concept docs</a>.</note>

If you now upload an image it will be a simple *File* content in the sensenet repository not a "real" *Image*.

![Upload image as File](./img/upload_as_file.gif "Upload image as File")

<note severity="info">Pro tip: you can always check the exact type of a content on its edit view. The icon next to the form title is the icon of the type, you can check the name of the related CTD by hovering over the icon and by clicking it you can get to the CTD right away.</note>

## Upload images

> How could we solve for the images to be uploaded with the content type Image? Nothing is simpler, let's add the **Image** type to the allowed child types list next to File and Folder.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
How an image can be uploaded with the content type Image? Nothing is simpler, let's add the **Image** type to the allowed child types list next to File and Folder.
```

    <Configuration>
      <MaxLength>30</MaxLength>
      <MinLength>10</MinLength>
      <Regex>[a-zA-Z0-9]*$</Regex>
      <Compulsory>true</Compulsory>
    </Configuration>
  </Field>
  <Field name="RelatedProject" type="Reference">
    <DisplayName>Related project</DisplayName>
    <Description>Project to which the contract relates</Description>
    <Configuration>
      <AllowMultiple>false</AllowMultiple>
      <AllowedTypes>
        <Type>ProjectWorkspace</Type>
      </AllowedTypes>
    </Configuration>
  </Field>
  <Field name="ContractValue" type="Number">
    <DisplayName>Contract value</DisplayName>
    <Description>Value of the contract</Description>
    <Configuration>
      <Digits>2</Digits>
    </Configuration>
  </Field>
  <Field name="RenewalDate" type="DateTime">
    <DisplayName>Renewal date</DisplayName>
    <Description>The date of renewal of the contract</Description>
  </Field>
  </Fields>
</ContentType>
```

This content type definition will include fields inherited from the File type (*Binary*, *DisplayName*, etc) and custom ones related to contracts as mentioned in the example above (*RelatedProject*, *RenewalDate*, etc).

> Open the settings menu and go to Configurations. There you can find a configurations file names Portal.settings. Open it for edit. This json file contains system-wide settings related to extensions and file types. Search for the list of `UploadFileExtensions`, which is actually an array that contains extension and content type pairs. You can define here how the system should handle the different file extensions when you upload a file with a specific one. As you can see, the common image file extensions are listed and connected to the *Image* type and *File* is the default. Add a new key value pair to connect Word documents and your newly created type, *Contract*. This setting means that if you upload a Word document it will be created as Contract and will have the custom fields as well.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Open the settings menu and go to Configurations. There you can find a configurations file named Portal.settings. Open it for edit. This json file contains system-wide settings related to extensions and file types. Search for the list of `UploadFileExtensions`, which is actually an array that contains extension and content type pairs. You can define here how the system should handle the different file extensions when you upload a file with a specific one. As you can see, the common image file extensions are listed and connected to the *Image* type and *File* is the default. Add a new key value pair to connect Word documents and your newly created type, *Contract*. This setting means that if you upload a Word document it will be created as Contract and will have the custom fields as well.
```
